Title:  Meet our team - Mark
Date: 2015-12-14 12:00
Category: general
Tags: team, mark
Slug: meet-our-team-mark
Author:  Mark Evenson
Summary: Introducing our Commodore x40

## Introducing our Commodore x40

We're back for our third team member introduction: Mark Evenson is yet
another co-founder of CloudFleet.  Mark was born in Springfield, but
with five digits on each hand.  Although he holds a jaundiced view of
software development, his natural pigmentation is not yellow.


## What is your background? What did you study, what job experience do you have and in which field(s)?

After growing up in various parts of the world, I eventually made it
to Ithaca, NY, where I was interested in studying either English or
Physics at Cornell University.  Reasoning that I could always pick up
a pen to write or a book to read later on, but wouldn't always have
access to a particle accelerator to fool around with, I decided to
officially pursue the natural science route.  Having extensive
exposure to the pre-commercial Internet, I became more interested in
the computational aspects of working with a near-infrared astronomy
group imaging proto-stellar disks around nearby suns.  Soley by USENET
and email I was led to a stint designing a virtual reality operating
system (MOSES) at the Human Interface Technology Laboratory in
Seattle, WA.  After drifting around the states in an '87 Civic
hatchback, washing dishes and writing poetry, I found myself driving
to an apartment in Harlem, NYC on the day of Clinton's first
inauguration.  While wandering around comparing the New York I had
read about with the York I now called Nueva, I was quickly swept up in
the commercializing Internet.  After the dust from the Towers had
settled, I had worked for a variety of established firms and scrappy
start ups at the daybreak of what we now know as the World Wide Web.

## What is your role in CloudFleet?

I consider myself a seasoned generalist who knows how to specialize
when needed, a sort Jack-of-all-trades and a master of the one I am
concentrating on, if you will.  Currently, I am coordinating the
engineering activities towards our "First Customer Ship", part of
which consists in designing and implementing a zero-knowledge backup
system.

##  Are you currently fully involved in CloudFleet? If not, where do you work/what do you do?

As a co-founder, I am currently "all-in" towards the minimal viable
product with a ship date at CCC 2015 in Hamburg.  In order to pay the
bills before we get some reasonable cash flow, I work as a contract
software developer.  Most recently, I designed, developed and deployed
a "full stack" next generation Electronic Health Record system rooted
in semantics (first order description logics) for the University at
Buffalo School of Dental Medicine.  We dynamically compiled a per-user
specific JavaScript bundle as a HTML5 client which securely connected
via TLS to a Java Virtual Machine based application server.  I also
work on various open source projects, the most prominent being
[Armed Bear Common Lisp](http://abcl.org), a language implementation
which runs on a Java Virtual Machine.

## What are some of your current interests and hobbies?

When I get the time--which is increasingly dear--I continue to do
recreational mathematics, where I currently am working through ideas
towards a systematized taxonomy of known algorithms for quantum
computers.  And, although I currently live inland, I try make what
time I can to go surfing, on real waves on a real beach.

## Why are you interested in privacy?

Instinctively, I have always been an online privacy advocate since my
first days of dialing up local BBS numbers via a 300 bp/s modem from
my Commodore 64 in the 1980s (the "x40" in my CloudFleet title is a
reference to these days, being a representation of "64" in
hexadecimal).  Over the years, my interest in privacy stems from the
realization that we only get to build one Internet: one where everyone
can be spied on, or one on which no one can be spied on.  On this one
Internet, privacy is not just about hiding things, but is the process
by which we create out public persona.  For if we don't have a private
sphere, how can we say that we have a public commons?

## In what ways do you think CloudFleet can solve the problem of privacy?

Without a local computation capable of being verified for trust one
cannot know that the interconnected computer systems we are using are
not simulations of the ones we expect.  These projections of our
mirrorworld offer us only indistinguishable simulacra that may
either inadvertently or maliciously compromise control of our own
data.

## What makes you a valuable asset to CloudFleet?

A determination to not let the "Snowden moment" pass into history
without having said that I did not try to make a different world.
